Meal name

Greek Lemon Chicken and Potatoes

Meal Type:

Lunch

Description

I don't have the energy or courage to cater for a living but, if I did, this Greek lemon chicken and potatoes would be one of my go-to entrees, and not just for big, fat weddings. It's a proven crowd-pleaser, simple to make, and easy on the wallet.

DietHealth

Healthy


World cuisine

America



Ingredients

4 pounds skin-on, bone-in chicken thighs
 
1 tablespoon kosher salt
 
1 tablespoon dried oregano
 
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
 
1 teaspoon dried rosemary
 
1 pinch cayenne pepper
 
½ cup fresh lemon juice
 
½ cup olive oil
 
6 cloves garlic, minced
 
3 medium (2-1/4" to 3" dia, raw)s russet potatoes, peeled and quartered
 
? cup chicken broth, plus splash to deglaze pan
 
1 sprig chopped fresh oregano for garnish



Instructions
 Step 1
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). Lightly oil a large roasting pan.

 Step 2
Place chicken pieces in large bowl. Season with salt, oregano, pepper, rosemary, and cayenne pepper. Add fresh lemon juice, olive oil, and garlic. Place potatoes in bowl with the chicken; stir together until chicken and potatoes are evenly coated with marinade.

 Step 3
Transfer chicken pieces, skin side up, to prepared roasting pan, reserving marinade. Distribute potato pieces among chicken thighs. Drizzle with 2/3 cup chicken broth. Spoon remainder of marinade over chicken and potatoes.

 Step 4
Place in preheated oven. Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes. Toss chicken and potatoes, keeping chicken skin side up; continue baking until chicken is browned and cooked through, about 25 minutes more. An instant-read thermometer inserted near the bone should read 165 degrees F (74 degrees C). Transfer chicken to serving platter and keep warm.

 Step 5
Set oven to broil or highest heat setting. Toss potatoes once again in pan juices. Place pan under broiler and broil until potatoes are caramelized, about 3 minutes. Transfer potatoes to serving platter with chicken.

 Step 6
Place roasting pan on stove over medium heat. Add a splash of broth and stir up browned bits from the bottom of the pan. Strain; spoon juices over chicken and potatoes. Top with chopped oregano.